The Gates of Morning by Henry De Vere Stacpoole is a canoe of the Pacific. Its trunk is hollowed and shaped into the form of an boat, so narrow in proportion to its length as to be absolutely unstable but for the outrigger. The outriger is an apology to the sea for want of beam, and for it the islands would have been sealed. Far away in the remote past some man once stood. Look, there’s Katafa. She was a girl under the taboo of Taminan, the girl no man or woman might touch, and then one day she went fishing beyond the reef and the storm took her and she was drowned, so they said.” “She was not drownéd,” replied Dick. “The wind blew her to Marua where I was—I and another whose face I have near forgotten, Kearney, he was called.” Then the god Nan came to the island and after him the men of Karolin who fought together so that all were killed, Aioma, who had no eyes for nothing but the dinghy, which was carvel-built and entire, a perfect specimen of eastern boat-building over which the canoe designer brooded forgetful of Dick and Katafa the beach he stood on and the sun that lit it. Dick was perhaps a million years younger than Aioma, just as the fishing canoe that had just brought him across the lagoon. In Dick, he saw the lines that indicated speed and strength, nothing more—he was blind to the nobility of type expressed by that daring face, the far sight of the eyes and the breadth of brow; in the dinghy I saw want of speed—as against the dugout which has neither keel nor ribs. schooner, he ran to a great pool in the coral, calling Aioma to come and see what she who made the dinghy had also made. The pool thirty feet long by twenty broad was ruffled by the breeze from the sea, it was clear as crystal, coral floored—and the trapped school of tiny fish no larger than needles, passed like an silver cloud here and there. Like children, whilst the little schooner on its imitation sea soared from port to port, bowing to the ripples of the pool as the lost Raratonga, of which it was the model, had bowed to trough the great Pacific.