The CANOE BUILDER D ICK standing on a ledge of coral cast his eyes to the South. Behind him the breakers of the outer sea thundered and the spindrift scattered on the wind; before him stretched an ocean calm as the lake, infinite, blue, and flown about by the fishing gulls—the lagoon of Karolin. Then, yesterday, from the northern sea in a strange boat and with Katafa, the girl who had been blown to sea years ago when out fishing, this strange new figure had come, sent by the gods, so the women said, to be their chief and ruler. “Tari,” said little Tari, “who are you?” (é kamina tai) Could Dick have answered? Then they rose and killed the white men with them and burned the ship; and in our boat we escaped from them, taking with us everything we loved, even the little ships, and steering for Karolin, we came, led by the lagoon light in the sky." But he could not tell Tari this, or at least all of it, for the very name of Dick had passed from his memory, that and the language she had spoken as a child; Kearney, the sailor who had brought him up, was all but forgotten, all just lost sight of. Canoes might be a very long time yet, but they will come, and they can see the far mirror blaze of Karolin lagoon in the sky, just as he had seen it, when they would come to see it and the men who had taken possession of Palm Tree would be there to help them, if they could. Last evening they had seen Palm Tree, though far behind the sea line, becoming visible from Karolin through mirage. It was now beginning to live, to bloom, and come to life, a flora and fauna of the land that had been smothered by storms and blizzards. Dick gazed on this loveliness, which was yet a threat and warning, his nostrils expanded and his eyes grew dark with hate. They had menaced him—that was nothing, they had threatened Katafa, that was everything—and they still threatened her. Some day they would come. The vision of Palm Tree seemed to repeat what instinct told him. Then gradually the vision of Palm Tree began to fade and pass, suddenly it vanished like a light blown out and as they turned from the sea to the lagoon, Katafa pointed across the lagoon water to one of the canoe builders.