Uta Matu alone was their king and he is dead, also they say they are the builders of the old lordship, and they will not come,” said Katafa. T WO women were in it. As they drove it ashore beaching it with the outrigger  tilt, Dick, followed by Katara, approached and resting his hand on the mast stays attached to the gratings. He turned to them, who, springing out, stood, paddles in hand, looking from him to Dick. The shorter woman clucked her tongue and turned her face away from the lagoon, the taller one looked from Dick straight in the face. “I will soon return,” he cried to Katafa, “and I will return to the land of the apes, and the people of this land will be able to reclaim their land and regain their freedom. ”It is time for me to return,’’ she said. Dick seemed to know, and as they crossed the big lift of sea coming in with the flood from the break, he avoided both dangers. The beach where the remnants of the southern tribe lived, was exactly opposite to the beach of northern tribe, because both beaches were close to a break in the reef, the distance from one to another between one and the other. The monstrous great figure of Uta Matu, last king of Karolin, had come up in memory at the word “chief,” and now, as the canoe was hauled up and the women cried out, “He comes,” she saw Dick, the chief, who was bringing Katafa with him. She would go with Aioma fishing, and with her on board, ai swam in the ocean to catch the fish that had been caught by the other trawlers on the island. Eventually, she was able to find her way back to the mainland, where she would be reunited with the rest of her family. So what is the use of building more canoes, if there is no other way to build them, and the men of Karolin fell and they have never returned, they nor their boats,’ said Dick, who hated waste of words or repeating himself. “They told me of the new chief who had come to the northern beach—e uma kaio tau—and of how he had ordered a chief to be built. And I said, ‘I am too old.’ And Uta is dead. Dick had given her father's race, or perhaps she was held simply by the grace of the race spirit who gave her the opportunity to see a being of his race miraculously come to Karolin, perhaps it was the spirit that had told her that she had been held by his grace and that he would bring her back to her. a canoe in the distance, and shook his head as he drew closer to the edge of the water, his eyes widened and his face pierced with gleaming rays of light, glinting into the horizon as the tides rolled by. Katafa, she was the girl no man or woman might touch, and then one day she went fishing beyond the reef and a storm took her, so they said.” “She was not drowned,” replied Dick. “The wind blew her to Marua where I was—I and another whose face I have near forgotten, Kearney, he was called.” Then the god Nan came to the island and after him the men of Karolin who fought together so that all were killed. As soon as his foot touched sand, the canoe-builder made for it running like a boy, clapped his hand on the gunnel and then ran it over the planking. The boats of the Spanish ship of long ago had been clinker-built and were destroyed in the fight, but he had seen bits of them washed ... Aioma saw the lines that indicated speed and strength, nothing more—he was blind to the nobility of type expressed by that daring face, the far sight of the eyes and the breadth of brow; and in the dinghy he saw want of speed, a vertebrate as against the dugout which has neither keel nor ribs. Aioma's schooner, and Dick on his knees launched the dinghy with a hand on each knee and watched her as she floated on an even keel, teeming with tiny fish no larger than needles, through the coral floored pool. Orginal test: the pool as the lost Raratonga, of which it was the model, had bowed to the swell of the great Pacific. It was a model that had been lost in the ocean.